---
title: So… what am I doing here?
summary: An introductory post outlining the purpose and content of my personal blog, including technical deep dives, career insights, and personal reflections.
categories: [blogging]
date: 2024-05-16
---

Hello there and welcome to my personal blog! I'm Zander Otavka, and I'm glad
you've found your way here. You might be wondering what this blog is all about,
so let me share a bit about myself and why I've decided to start this space.

## Who Am I?

I'm a software engineer with a B.A. in Computer Science from Grinnell College,
Class of 2020. I’ve been coding since I was ten years old. Over the past few
years, I've worked with some incredible teams at companies like Chipper Cash,
VMware, and Athenahealth. My journey in tech has been filled with learning,
growth, and a fair share of challenges. Through it all, I've been driven by my
enthusiasm for the beauty and complexity of computing.

## Why This Blog?

Before tech was my profession, it was my hobby. I find great joy in learning,
solving problems, and creating solutions through software. This blog is my way
of sharing that passion with you. Whether you're a fellow engineer, a tech
enthusiast, or simply curious about what goes on behind the scenes, I hope
you'll find something here that resonates with you. I have a few goals for this
blog.

**Completing Projects**: Often, when working on personal projects, it's easy to
get sidetracked and leave things half-finished. I have a bit of a perfectionist
streak, so it's sometimes hard to know when to wrap up a project. Blogging is my
way of pushing myself to complete these projects and give myself that sense of
closure by writing up the process.

**Remembering Processes**: It's easy to forget how we did something looking back
months and years later. This blog will help me remember how I did things that
might be useful in the future.

**Practicing My Writing**: I've found one of the most important skills for both
thinking and communicating is writing well. With the emergence of LLMs, the
writing process is changing, and I want to learn to use these tools to continue
to grow as a writer.

**Posting Wrong Answers**: [Cunningham’s Law
says](https://meta.wikimedia.org/wiki/Cunningham%27s_Law), "the best way to get
the right answer on the internet is not to ask a question; it's to post the
wrong answer." There's a relevant [XKCD comic](https://xkcd.com/386/). I'll
probably be posting my fair share of wrong or incomplete answers as I learn, and
I'd like to encourage constructive criticism so I can continue to grow and
learn.

## What Can You Expect?

**Technical Deep Dives**: I'll share detailed posts about the projects I'm
working on, the hurdles I face, and the solutions I come up with. From Python
scripting and cloud storage optimization to big data infrastructure—there's a
lot to explore.

**Career Insights**: I've learned a lot about navigating the tech industry, and
I'll be sharing my thoughts on job hunting, career development, and working in
different environments. I hope my experiences can provide some guidance for your
own journey.

**Personal Reflections**: Beyond the technical aspects, I'll be sharing some
personal reflections on my experiences, the lessons I've learned, and my
thoughts on the ever-evolving tech landscape. Sometimes, the road isn't easy,
and I think it's important to talk about that too.

**Learning and Development**: Continuous learning is something I deeply believe
in. I'll be documenting my learning journey, sharing useful resources, and
exploring new technologies. Let's grow and learn together.

## Join the Conversation

I welcome your thoughts, questions, and feedback. Your perspectives are
invaluable, and I'm eager to learn from them. While I haven’t built in comments
on my personal site, feel free to reach out and mention me on LinkedIn, and I’ll
do my best to respond.

Thank you for stopping by. I'm excited to start this journey and share it with
you. Stay tuned for more posts, and let's dive into the fascinating world of
technology together.

---

**AI Disclosure**: This post was drafted with the help of GPT-4o, but has been
prompted, reviewed, and edited by my own human eyes and hands. All views
expressed are mine, and any errors fall to me.
